---
title: Good Will Hunting
toc: false
header:
 image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HelloWorld-1017/blog-images/main/imgs/202407301159369.jpg
date: 2024-07-30 12:08:54 +0800
last_modified_at: 2024-07-30 12:08:54 +0800
---

I thought about what you said to me the other day. About my painting. Stayed up half the night thinking about it. Something occurred to me. I fell into a deep, peaceful sleep, and I haven’t thought about you since. You know what occurred to me? You’re just a kid. You don’t have the faintest idea what you’re talking about. You’ve never been out of Boston. So if I asked you about art, you’d probably give me the skinny on every art book ever written. Michelangelo. You know a lot about him. Life’s work. Political aspirations. Him and the pope. Sexual orientation. The whole works, right? I bet you can’t tell me what it smells like in the Sistine Chapel. You never actually stood there looked up at the beautiful ceiling. Seen that. If I ask you about women, you’ll probably give me a syllabus of your personal favorites. You may have even been laid a few times. But you can’t tell me what it feels like to wake up next to a woman and feel truly happy. You’re a tough kid. I ask you about war, you’d probably throw Shakespeare at me, right? “Once more into the breach, dear friends.” But you’ve never been near one. You’ve been held your best friend’s head in your lap, and watch him grasp his last breath looking to you for help. I ask you about love, you’d probably quote me a sonnet, but you’ve never looked at a woman and been totally vulnerable. Known someone that could level you with her eyes. Feeling like God put an angel on Earth just for you. Who could rescue you from the depths of hell. And you wouldn’t know what it’s like to be her angel to have that love for her be there forever. Through anything. Through cancer. And you wouldn’t know about sleeping sitting up in a hospital room for two months holding her hand. Because the doctors could see in your eyes that terms “visiting hours” don’t apply to you. You don’t know about real loss, cause that only occurs when you love something more than you love yourself. I doubt you’ve ever dared to love anybody that much. I look at you... I don’t see an intelligent, confident man. I see a cocky, scared shitless kid. But you’re a genius, Will. No one denies that. No one could possibly understand the depths of you. But you presume to know everything about me because you saw a painting of mine. You ripped my fucking life apart. You’re an orphan, right? Do you think I’d know the first thing about how hard your life has been, how you feel, who you are because I read Oliver Twist? Dose that encapsulate you? Personally, I don’t give a shit about all that. Because you know what? I can’t learn anything from you. I can’t read in some fucking book. Unless you want to talk about you, who you are. Then I’m fascinated. I’m in. But you don’t wanna do that, do you, sport? You’re terrified of what you might say. You move, chief. 

--- Good Will Hunting[^1]

<br>

[^1]: [Good Will Hunting - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Good_Will_Hunting).
