# Introduction

一直觉得有两句话说得很有富有哲学，“Every rule can be broken, as long as you are aware of that you are breaking a rule”，“The only mistakes are things done in ignorance”，最初看到这两句话是在2019年大三学习LaTeX的TikZ宏包官方文档时看到的，之后就一直记在心里。最近在绘制论文图像的时候，总觉得脑子有些乱，讲不出自己如此作图的原因，没有一些“原则”。于是就重新找到了TikZ宏包的官方文档，重新学习了一下作图的原则，记录在这里。原文档见：[PGF/TikZ Manual : Guidelines on Graphics](https://tikz.dev/guidelines).

<br>

# Guidelines on Graphics

TikZ宏包官方文档(下简称文档)的第二章介绍了平面设计和排版(graphic design and typography)领域一些通用的准则。

首先，第一条准则就是：不要盲目遵从任何准则，任何准则都是针对指定的场景的。比如说，文档就给出了一个颜色使用的例子：

> The first thing you should ask yourself when someone presents a bunch of guidelines is: **Should I really follow these guidelines?** This is an important question, because there are good reasons not to follow general guidelines. The person who set up the guidelines may have had other objectives than you do. For example, a guideline might say “use the color red for emphasis”. While this guideline makes perfect sense for, say, <u>a presentation using a projector</u>, red “color” has the opposite effect of “emphasis” when printed using <u>a black-and-white printer</u>. **Guidelines were almost always set up to address a specific situation**. If you are not in this situation, following a guideline can do more harm than good.

第二条准则是：准则是可以打破的。

> The second thing you should be aware of is the basic rule of typography is: “**Every rule can be broken, as long as you are aware that you are breaking a rule.**” This rule also applies to graphics. Phrased differently, the basic rule states: “**The only mistakes in typography are things done in ignorance.**” When you are aware of a rule and when you decide that breaking the rule has a desirable effect, break the rule.

<br>

# Planning the Time Needed for the Creation of Graphics

在撰写论文时，绘制图像同样是一件需要花费很长时间的事情，并且同样需要反复修改，但人们常常忽略了这一点。

> When you create a paper with numerous graphics, the time needed to create these graphics becomes an important factor. How much time should you calculate for the creation of graphics?
>
> **As a general rule, assume that a graphic will need as much time to create as would a text of the same length.** For example, when I write a paper, I need about one hour per page for the first draft. Later, I need between two and four hours per page for revisions. Thus, I expect to need about half an hour for the creation of a first draft of a half page graphic. Later on, I expect another one to two hours before the final graphic is finished.
>
> In many publications, even in good journals, the authors and editors have obviously invested a lot of time on the text, but seem to have spend about five minutes to create all of the graphics. **Graphics often seem to have been added as an “afterthought” or look like a screen shot of whatever the authors’s statistical software shows them.** 

绘制一幅有助于读者阅读、与正文相契合的informative的图像，是一个耗时耗力且复杂的过程。我们必须摆正对于图像绘制的态度。

> Creating informative graphics that help the reader and that fit together with the main text is a difficult, lengthy process.
>
> - **Treat graphics as first-class citizens of your papers**. They deserve as much time and energy as the text does. Indeed, the creation of graphics might deserve even more time than the writing of the main text since more attention will be paid to the graphics and they will be looked at first.
> - **Plan as much time for the creation and revision of a graphic as you would plan for text of the same size**.
> - **Difficult graphics with a high information density may require even more time**.
> - **Very simple graphics will require less time, but most likely you do not want to have “very simple graphics” in your paper, anyway**; just as you would not like to have a “very simple text” of the same size.

<br>

# Workflow for Creating a Graphic

撰写论文时，我们通常会从一个想法出发，之后撰写论文初稿，之后反复修改。

> When you write a (scientific) paper, you will most likely follow the following pattern: You have some results/ideas that you would like to report about. The creation of the paper will typically start with compiling a rough outline. Then, the different sections are filled with text to create a first draft. This draft is then revised repeatedly until, often after substantial revision, a final paper results. In a good journal paper there is typically not be a single sentence that has survived unmodified from the first draft.

通常而言，绘制图像同样需要遵从类似的工作流。

> Creating a graphics follows the same pattern:
>
> - Decide on what the graphic should communicate. Make this a conscious decision, that is, determine “What is the graphic supposed to tell the reader?”
> - Create an “outline”, that is, the rough overall “shape” of the graphic, containing the most crucial elements. Often, it is useful to do this using pencil and paper.
> - Fill out the finer details of the graphic to create a first draft.
> - Revise the graphic repeatedly along with the rest of the paper.

<br>

# Linking Graphics With the Main Text

图像可以分为in-line图像和stand-alone图像：

> Graphics can be placed at different places in a text. Either, they can be inlined, meaning they are somewhere “in the middle of the text” or they can be placed in stand-alone “figures”. Since printers (the people) like to have their pages “filled”, (both for aesthetic and economic reasons) stand-alone figures may traditionally be placed on pages in the document far away from the main text that refers to them. LATEX and TEX tend to encourage this “drifting away” of graphics for technical reasons.(即浮动体)

in-line图像通常会和正文紧密连接在一起：

> When a graphic is inlined, it will more or less automatically be linked with the main text in the sense that the labels of the graphic will be implicitly explained by the surrounding text. Also, the main text will typically make it clear what the graphic is about and what is shown.

但是，stand-alone图像并非如此，可能会离它所对应的正文内容比较远：

> Quite differently, a stand-alone figure will often be viewed at a time when the main text that this graphic belongs to either has not yet been read or has been read some time ago. 

出于这个原因(并且stand-alone图像是我们使用得最多的图像方式)，我们在绘制stand-alone图像时需要遵从一定的原则：

>For this reason, you should follow the following guidelines when creating stand-alone figures:
>
>- **Stand-alone figures should have a <u>caption</u> than should make them “understandable by themselves”.** For example, suppose a graphic shows an example of the different stages of a quicksort algorithm. Then the figure’s caption should, at the very least, inform the reader that “the figure shows the different stages of the quicksort algorithm introduced on page xyz”. and not just “Quicksort algorithm”.
>- **A good caption adds as much context information as possible.** For example, you could say: “The figure shows the different stages of the quicksort algorithm introduced on page xyz. In the first line, the pivot element 5 is chosen. This causes…” <u>While this information can also be given in the main text, putting it in the caption will ensure that the context is kept.</u> Do not feel afraid of a 5-line caption. (Your editor may hate you for this. **Consider hating them back**.)
>- **Reference the graphic in your main text** as in “for an example of quicksort ‘in action’, see Figure 2.1 on page xyz”.
>- Most books on style and typography recommend that you do not use abbreviations as in “Fig. 2.1” but write “Figure 2.1”. The main argument against abbreviations is that “a period is too valuable to waste it on an abbreviation”. The idea is that a period will make the reader assume that the sentence ends after “Fig” and it takes a “conscious backtracking” to realize that the sentence did not end after all. The argument in favor of abbreviations is that they save space. Personally, I am not really convinced by either argument. On the one hand, I have not yet seen any hard evidence that abbreviations slow readers down. On the other hand, abbreviating all “Figure” by “Fig.” is most unlikely to save even a single line in most documents. **I avoid abbreviations.**

<br>

# Consistency Between Graphics and Text

在绘制图像时，人们最经常忽略的问题就是整个论文的图像和正文的内容前后不一致，也就是说，一看就知道不是出自一个人之手。

> Perhaps the most common “mistake” people do when creating graphics (remember that a “mistake” in design is always just “ignorance”) is to have a **mismatch between the way their graphics look and the way their text looks**.

这是很常见的，因为论文主要作者和合作者可能会采用不同的软件进行图像的绘制，同一个人可能也会采用不同的软件进行绘制，并且尽管是同一个人使用同一个软件，也会忽视这一点。这些原因都会导致图像的线条、字体、字体大小等设置都不统一。

> It is quite common that authors use several different programs for creating the graphics of a paper. An author might produce some plots using gnuplot, a diagram using xfig, and include an .eps graphic a coauthor contributed using some unknown program. All these graphics will, most likely, use different line widths, different fonts, and have different sizes. In addition, authors often use options like `[height=5cm]` when including graphics to scale them to some “nice size”.

同样的问题也会出现在论文正文中，但是这样的问题更多的还是出现在图像绘制中。

> If the same approach were taken to writing the main text, every section would be written in a different font at a different size. In some sections all theorems would be underlined, in another they would be printed all in uppercase letters, and in another in red. In addition, the margins would be different on each page. Readers and editors would not tolerate a text if it were written in this fashion, but with graphics they often have to.

为了保持论文中的图像前后一致，需要遵从一定的原则。

> To create consistency between graphics and text, stick to the following guidelines:
>
> - **Do not scale graphics**. This means that when generating graphics using an external program, create them “at the right size”.
> - **Use the same font(s) both in graphics and the body text.**
> - **Use the same line width in text and graphics.** The “line width” for normal text is the width of the stem of letters like T. For TEX, this is usually . However, some journals will not accept graphics with a normal line width below .
> - **When using colors, use a consistent color coding in the text and in graphics.** For example, if red is supposed to alert the reader to something in the main text, use red also in graphics for important parts of the graphic. If blue is used for structural elements like headlines and section titles, use blue also for structural elements of your graphic.
> - However, **graphics may also use a logical intrinsic color coding**. For example, no matter what colors you normally use, readers will generally assume, say, that the color green as “positive, go, ok” and red as “alert, warning, action”.

并且，如果我们使用了不同的软件来绘制图像，那么大概率是无法保持统一的，因此我们需要坚持使用同样的绘图软件。

> Creating consistency when using different graphic programs is almost impossible. For this reason, you should consider sticking to a single graphics program.

<br>

# Labels in Graphics

绘制图像中的标签(或者标记)同样需要遵从一定的原则：

> Almost all graphics will contain labels, that is, pieces of text that explain parts of the graphics. When placing labels, stick to the following guidelines:
>
> - **Follow the rule of consistency when placing labels.** You should do so in two ways: First, be consistent with the main text, that is, use the same font as the main text also for labels. Second, be consistent between labels, that is, if you format some labels in some particular way, format all labels in this way.
> - **In addition to using the same fonts in text and graphics, you should also use the same notation.** For example, if you write $1/2$ in your main text, also use “$1/2$” as labels in graphics, not “0.5”. A  $\pi$ is a “$\pi$” and not “$3.141$”. Finally,  $\mathrm{e}^{-\mathrm{i}\pi}$ is “$\mathrm{e}^{-\mathrm{i}\pi}$”, not “$-1$”, let alone “-1”.
> - **Labels should be legible.** They should not only have a reasonably large size, they also should not be obscured by lines or other text. This also applies to labels of lines and text behind the labels.
> - **Labels should be “in place”.** Whenever there is enough space, labels should be placed next to the thing they label. Only if necessary, add a (subdued) line from the label to the labeled object. Try to avoid labels that only reference explanations in external legends. Reader have to jump back and forth between the explanation and the object that is described.
> - **Consider subduing “unimportant” labels** using, for example, a gray color. This will keep the focus on the actual graphic.

<br>

# Plots and Charts





















>  While I do not agree with everything written in these books, many of Tufte’s arguments are so convincing that I decided to repeat them in the following guidelines.

<br>

**Reference**

[1] [PGF/TikZ Manual : Guidelines on Graphics](https://tikz.dev/guidelines).



